

Re: SQLExpress
Postby spenico » Fri May 01, 2015 6:31 pm

You can connect to Microsoft SQLEXPRESS using DBeaver, but you need to change a few settings. I've done this with a SQL Server 2014 SQLEXPRESS database using a Trusted Connection.

Most of this just repeats what is documented by the posts and links on this site, but there are a couple of tweaks. Also, it's updated for the 2014 version of SQLEXPRESS.

In general terms 

Make changes to SQLEXPRESS itself using the Sql Server Configuration Manager tool
Enable TCP/IP for SQLEXPRESS
For SQLEXPRESS TCP/IP, clear out the dynamic port and hardcode 1433
When creating the connection in DBeaver, enter/tweak a parameter or two on the "Driver properties" tab.
In more detail

The first two items, above (1a and 1b) are set in the Sql Server Configuration Manager tool.
In that tool, go to:
SQL Server Network Configuration | Protocols for SQLEXPRESS | TCP/IP
Enable the TCP/IP protocol in the Properties dialog for TCP/IP. (You can also enable it on the right-click menu.)
Set the TCP/IP port -- which can only be done in the Properties dialog (i.e., can't do it with just a right-click). 
On the "IP Addresses" tab of that Properties dialog, I used the IPAll settings at the bottom. Clear out TCP Dynamic Ports, then set TCP Port to 1433.
After making these changes, I was able to use DBeaver to create either a jTDS or a "Microsoft Driver" connection for my 2014 SQLEXPRESS DB with Trusted Connection.

To create a jTDS connection in DBeaver
Create a new connection, specifying MS SQL Server | jTDS driver
Fill out the info on the first (General) tab, complete with User name and Password.
I was able to enter my User name as just my Windows user name, not domain\username. But domain\username worked too, and that may be required on some networks. (I'm not sure.)
Go to the "Driver properties" tab and re-specify the DOMAIN and the USER as two separate parameters.
I did not need to re-specify my PASSWORD on the "Driver properties" tab.
And just to emphasize where to enter this: it's entered on the "Driver properties" tab -- not in the dialog box you get to by clicking the "Edit Driver Settings" button that's on the General tab.
Click the "Test Connection..." button to make sure it works, click Next a couple of times, then click Finish.
To create a "Microsoft Driver" connection in DBeaver
Create a new connection, specifying MS SQL Server | Microsoft Driver
Fill out the info on the first (General) tab, without specifying User name and Password (leave them blank).
Go to the Driver properties tab and set integratedSecurity=true.
And, once again, just to emphasize where to enter this: it's entered on the "Driver properties" tab -- not in the dialog box you get to by clicking the "Edit Driver Settings" button that's on the General tab.
Click the "Test Connection..." button to make sure it works, click Next a couple of times, then click Finish.
Which means, incidentally, that the "Microsoft Driver" connection is better than the jTDS connection because there's no need to change your password in the connection configuration -- and no risk that your domain account will get locked because you've forgotten that you have an out-of-date password.

